>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, JULY 29:
WHILE OBAMACARE REMAINS, SOME
LIVE WITH THE UNCERTAINTY OF
HAVING ONLY ONE HEALTH INSURER.
VENEZUELA IN CRISIS: WILL
PRESIDENT MADURO EXPAND HIS
POWERS?
AND IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
CREATING A DATABASE OF EVERY
CITIZEN IN INDIA, AMID CONCERNS
OVER PRIVACY.
NEXT, ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
THE WHITE HOUSE SAID LAST NIGHT
THAT PRESIDENT TRUMP WILL SIGN A
BILL IMPOSING NEW FINANCIAL
SANCTIONS ON RUSSIA FOR MEDDLING
IN LAST YEAR'S ELECTION AND FOR
ITS AGGRESSIVE ACTS IN UKRAINE
AND SYRIA.
THE BILL WAS APPROVED
OVERWHELMINGLY THIS WEEK BY
CONGRESS WITH VETO-PROOF
MAJORITIES IN BOTH HOUSES.
THE WHITE HOUSE DID NOT SAY WHEN
THE SIGNING WOULD HAPPEN, OR
WHETHER IT WOULD BE PUBLIC OR IN
PRIVATE.
EARLIER THIS WEEK, NEW WHITE
HOUSE COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR
ANTHONY SCARAMUCCI HAD SUGGESTED
THE PRESIDENT MIGHT VETO THE
BILL, AND NEGOTIATE AN "EVEN
TOUGHER DEAL AGAINST THE
RUSSIANS."
THE BILL WOULD FORCE MR. TRUMP
TO SEEK CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL
BEFORE SUSPENDING OR LIFTING THE
RUSSIAN SANCTIONS.
A NUMBER OF CURRENT AND FORMER
TRUMP ASSOCIATES ARE BEING
INVESTIGATED OVER POSSIBLE
COLLUSION BETWEEN RUSSIA AND HIS
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGN.
THE BILL SENT TO THE WHITE HOUSE
ALSO INCLUDES NEW SANCTIONS ON
NORTH KOREA AND IRAN.
CHEERING IN THE CAPITAL OF
PYONGYANG, AS NORTH KOREA
CARRIED OUT ITS SECOND
SUCCESSFUL TEST-LAUNCH THIS
MONTH OF AN INTERCONTINENTAL
BALLISTIC MISSILE.
LEADER KIM JONG-UN SAID
YESTERDAY THE LAUNCH WAS "A
STERN WARNING" TO THE UNITED
STATES.
NORTH KOREAN STATE TELEVISION
SHOWED PICTURES REPORTED TO BE
OF KIM JONG-UN AT THE LAUNCH
SITE.
THE MISSILE REACHED AN ALTITUDE
OF MORE THAN 2,300 MILES, AND
SOARED 620 MILES BEFORE LANDING
IN THE SEA OF JAPAN, WHICH
WESTERN EXPERTS CALLED AN
IMPROVEMENT OVER THE FIRST
TEST-LAUNCH, MORE THAN THREE
WEEKS AGO.
SOME ANALYSTS SAY THE DATA SHOWS
THE MISSILE COULD HAVE BEEN ABLE
TO PENETRATE AS FAR INSIDE THE
U.S. AS DENVER AND CHICAGO.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SAID THE U.S.
WILL TAKE "ALL NECESSARY STEPS"
TO PROTECT THE HOMELAND AND
AMERICAN ALLIES.
IRAN'S REVOLUTIONARY GUARDS
CHARGE THAT THE U.S. NAVY
AIRCRAFT CARRIER "NIMITZ" CAME
NEAR AN IRANIAN OFF-SHORE OIL
PLATFORM YESTERDAY, FIRED FLARES
AND LAUNCHED A HELICOPTER THAT
HOVERED NEAR THE PLATFORM BEFORE
RETURNING TO THE CARRIER.
THE IRANIANS CALLED THE U.S.
NAVY'S ACTION NEAR THE RESALAT
PLATFORM "UNPROFESSIONAL."
IT WAS THE SECOND CONFRONTATION
THIS WEEK IN THE PERSIAN GULF.
LAST TUESDAY, A U.S. NAVY PATROL
BOAT FIRED WARNING SHOTS AFTER
U.S. OFFICIALS SAY AN IRANIAN
VESSEL CAME WITHIN 150 YARDS OF
THE AMERICAN VESSEL.
LAST NIGHT, A FEDERAL JUDGE
BLOCKED ARKANSAS FROM ENFORCING
FOUR NEW RESTRICTIONS ON
ABORTIONS THAT STATE LAWMAKERS
APPROVED EARLIER THIS YEAR.
ONE OF THE RESTRICTIONS WOULD
HAVE BANNED A COMMON PROCEDURE
USED IN SECOND-TRIMESTER
ABORTIONS CALLED "DILATION AND
EVACUATION."
ABORTION RIGHTS ADVOCATES SAY IT
IS THE SAFEST METHOD, WHILE THE
STATE CALLS IT "BARBARIC."
THE PROCEDURE IS BANNED IN
MISSISSIPPI AND WEST VIRGINIA.
THE AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES
UNION AND THE CENTER FOR
REPRODUCTIVE RIGHTS, WHICH HAD
CHALLENGED THE ARKANSAS
RESTRICTIONS, SAY THE LAWS COULD
HAVE EFFECTIVELY ENDED ACCESS TO
ABORTION FACILITIES FOR MANY
WOMEN IN THE STATE.
WASHINGTON, D.C. WAS UNDER A
FLOOD WARNING TODAY AS HEAVY
RAINS CONTINUE TO DRENCH THE
MID-ATLANTIC STATES AND CENTRAL
APPALACHIANS.
FLOODING OVERNIGHT CLOSED
ROADWAYS AND PROMPTED RESCUE
OPERATIONS IN SOUTHWESTERN
PENNSYLVANIA AND THE PITTSBURGH
AREA.
AN ADDITIONAL TWO TO FIVE INCHES
OF RAIN IS EXPECTED TODAY, ON
TOP OF THE MORE THAN FOUR INCHES
THAT FELL YESTERDAY ACROSS THE
REGION.
THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
SAYS FLASH FLOODING COULD CAUSE
A POTENTIALLY LIFE-THREATENING
SITUATION OVERNIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN THE U.S.
SENATE FELL SHORT THIS WEEK OF
THE REPUBLICANS' GOAL TO REPEAL
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, IT LEFT
THE A.C.A. IN PLACE, AT LEAST
FOR NOW.
AND TODAY ON TWITTER, PRESIDENT
TRUMP SEEMED TO THREATEN THOSE
LAWMAKERS AND INSURANCE
COMPANIES, SAYING:
"IF A NEW HEALTHCARE BILL IS NOT
APPROVED QUICKLY, BAILOUTS FOR
INSURANCE COMPANIES AND BAILOUTS
FOR MEMBERS OF CONGRESS WILL END
VERY SOON!"
THE PRESIDENT MIGHT HAVE BEEN
REFERRING TO COST SHARING
REDUCTION PAYMENTS, WHICH LOWER
THE AMOUNT INDIVIDUALS HAVE TO
PAY FOR DEDUCTIBLES, CO-PAYMENTS
AND INSURANCE.
CURRENTLY, OBAMACARE PROVIDES
INSURANCE TO 12 MILLION PEOPLE
THROUGH PRIVATE POLICIES
PURCHASED ON EXCHANGES.
BUT SOME OF THE EXCHANGES HAVE
SEEN INSURERS LIKE AETNA,
ANTHEM, CIGNA, AND HUMANA, PULL
OUT.
THAT TREND, ACCORDING TO THE
"NEW YORK TIMES," REUTERS AND
KAISER HEALTH NEWS, COULD LEAVE
THREE MILLION PEOPLE IN MORE
THAN 1,300 COUNTIES WITH ONLY
ONE OBAMACARE-PARTICIPATING
INSURER NEXT YEAR.
45 OR MORE COUNTIES COULD HAVE
NONE.
FOR MORE, I AM JOINED FROM
WASHINGTON BY MARY AGNES CAREY
OF KAISER HEALTH NEWS.
HOW DID WE GET TO THIS
SITUATION?
YOU KNOW, THE PRESIDENT LIKES TO
DESCRIBE IT AS OBAMACARE
IMPLODING.
BUT WE'RE CLEARLY SEEING THAT
THERE'S A DISPARITY IN HOW MUCH
CHOICE CONSUMERS HAVE WHEN THEY
GO TO THESE EXCHANGES.
>> INSURERS HAVE BEEN VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE UNCERTAINTY
AROUND THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
AS YOU MENTIONED, THERE'S BEEN A
LOT OF DISCUSSION ON CAPITOL
HILL ABOUT REPEALING AND
REPLACING THE LAW.
THAT FELL APART THIS WEEK IN THE
SENATE.
THERE'S BEEN CONCERN ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION WOULD FUND THESE
COST-SHARING SUBSIDIES THAT HELP
LOW-INCOME PEOPLE WITH THEIR
OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS.
AND THERE'S ALSO BEEN CONCERN
FROM INSURERS ABOUT TOUGH
ENFORCEMENT OF THE INDIVIDUAL
MANDATE, THIS REQUIREMENT THAT
MOST AMERICANS HAVE INSURANCE
OR PAY A FINE.
SO WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT
COLLECTIVELY, INSURERS ARE
GETTING WORRIED, AND SOME ARE
DECIDING NOT TO GO INTO SOME
MARKETS OR LEAVE OTHER MARKETS
OR RAISE THEIR PRICES TO TRY TO
COMPENSATE FOR THAT UNCERTAINTY.
>> Sreenivasan: I REMEMBER
WHEN THE A.C.A. FIRST PASSED,
ONE OF THE BIG, SORT OF
COMPROMISES TO THE INSURANCE
INDUSTRY WAS SAYING, "HEY, THIS
INDIVIDUAL MANDATE WILL BE IN
PLACE.
EVERYONE WILL HAVE TO HAVE
INSURANCE.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO FIND NEW
CUSTOMERS."
>> RIGHT.
BUT THE THOUGHT HAS BEEN ALSO
THAT HAS BEEN THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR THE INSURERS, AND THEY HAVE
GOTTEN IN, BUT THEY KNEW
INITIALLY, THE SICKEST PEOPLE
WOULD COME IN FIRST.
THEY HAVE BEEN VERY, VERY
EXPENSIVE.
AND THEN THERE'S ALSO BEEN
ONGOING CONCERN ABOUT THE PRICE
OF THE PREMIUMS.
SOME PEOPLE HAVE OPTED, RATHER,
NOT TO ENROLL AND SIMPLY PAY
THAT INDIVIDUAL MANDATE PENALTY.
SO THE INDIVIDUAL MANDATE, OF
COURSE, WE KNOW HAS BEEN A
LIGHTNING ROD ON CAPITOL HILL.
REPUBLICANS HATE IT.
THEY SAY AMERICANS SHOULDN'T BE
REQUIRED TO PURCHASE INSURANCE
OR BE TOLD WHAT INSURANCE TO
BUY.
SO IT HAS BEEN A FOCAL POINT OF
THIS EVER SINCE THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT WAS CREATED.
>> Sreenivasan: INSURANCE
COMPANIES ARE ALSO RESPONSIBLE
TO THEIR SHAREHOLDERS.
THEY'RE THINKING A COUPLE OF
YEARS OUT.
IN THE PAST COUPLE OF YEARS
WE'VE SEEN THEM START TO MAKE
MOVES REGARDLESS OF WHO WAS
GOING TO WIN THIS WHITE HOUSE.
>> YOU KNOW, THEY LOOKED AT THE
MARKET, AS YOU MENTIONED, SOME
ARE IN, AND SOME ARE OUT.
AND AGAIN, WE GET BACK TO THE
UNCERTAINTY.
IS THIS A MARKETPLACE WHERE THEY
WANT TO BE?
WILL THIS MARKETPLACE BE
SUPPORTED BY THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION?
WILL THE RULES AND REGULATIONS
OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT BE
IMPLEMENTED AND OVERSEEN BY THE
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION, AND THAT
HAS JUST BEEN AT THE FOCAL POINT
OF THIS ENTIRE THING, WHERE THE
INSURERS ARE INVOLVED.
>> Sreenivasan: WELL, WHAT ABOUT
MEDICAID EXPANSION OR AT LEAST
THE SUBSIDIES, AND HOW MUCH THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT OR ANY SORT
OF A REPLACEMENT WILL PAY?
WHAT CAN THE INSURANCE COMPANIES
EXPECT?
>> WELL, RIGHT NOW, SINCE THINGS
HAVE FALLEN APART ABOUT THIS ON
CAPITOL HILL, THE MEDICAID
EXPANSION, WHICH 31 STATES
EMBRACED, IS STILL THERE.
SO THEY COULD STILL COUNT ON
THAT ENROLLMENT.
AND FOR NOW, THE SUBSIDIES
THAT, AS YOU MENTIONED EARLIER,
FUND ABOUT EIGHT OUT OF TEN
BENEFICIARIES, ARE STILL THERE.
THE KEY POINT ON THE SUBSIDY
ISSUE IS THIS COST SHARING
SUBSIDY.
THAT IS THE SUBSIDY THAT HELPS
ABOUT SEVEN MILLION ENROLLEES
WITH THEIR OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS.
AND INSURERS ARE VERY WORRIED
THAT THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
MIGHT STOP FUNDING THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT SORT OF
ACTIONS CAN BE TAKEN FOR, WHAT
ARE CALLED THESE "BARE"
COUNTIES, WHERE BASICALLY THERE
ARE NOW CURRENTLY NO INSURERS ON
THE EXCHANGES, OR AS THOSE
COUNTIES GROW IN NUMBER?
>> THERE ARE A VARIETY OF
PROPOSALS THAT COULD BE
EMBRACED.
CLAIRE McCASKILL, A DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR FROM MISSOURI, HAS A
PLAN THAT SAYS IF YOU'RE IN A
BARE COUNTY, YOU SHOULD BE ABLE
TO BUY HEALTH INSURANCE ON THE
SAME EXCHANGE HERE IN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, WHERE
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS BUY
COVERAGE.
THERE IS ALSO A VARIETY OF
PROPOSALS OUT THERE TO TRY TO
HELP INSURERS WITH THEIR HIGH-
COST CASES.
THIS IS CALLED REINSURANCE.
THAT PROGRAM EXISTED FOR THREE
YEARS.
IT'S GOING AWAY IN 2018.
YOU HAVE MEMBERS ON BOTH SIDES
OF THE AISLE TALKING ABOUT THAT.
AND THE THOUGHT IS, IF YOU STEP
IN AND TRY TO HELP WITH THOSE
HIGH-COST CASES, THAT PREMIUMS
COULD BE REDUCED.
BUT WE ALSO HAVE TO REMEMBER
THOSE BROADER BILLS FROM
REPUBLICANS IN THE HOUSE AND THE
SENATE, ALL INCLUDED MONEY FOR
STATE MARKETS TO TRY TO HELP
THESE INSURERS.
SO IT'S KIND OF A MOVING TARGET
AT THIS POINT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
MARY AGNES CAREY OF "KAISER
HEALTH NEWS," THANKS SO MUCH FOR
JOINING US.
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS
ORGANIZATION MAKES SHORT FILMS
FOR CHILDREN THAT SPOTLIGHT
AFRICAN AMERICAN FIGURES
THROUGHOUT HISTORY.
READ MORE AT
www.pbs.org/newshour.
SINCE 2010, INDIA HAS UNDERTAKEN
WHAT IS BY FAR THE LARGEST
CITIZEN REGISTRATION DRIVE IN
HISTORY: ATTEMPTING TO ADD ALL
OF ITS 1.3 BILLION PEOPLE INTO A
SINGLE NATIONAL IDENTIFICATION
DATABASE.
THE SYSTEM ASSIGNS EVERYONE A
NUMBER, STORES FINGERPRINTS AND
EVEN SCANS THEIR EYES.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT FRED DE SAM LAZARO
REPORTS ON HOW INDIA IS CREATING
THE BIOMETRIC DATABASE AND THE
PRIVACY CONCERNS IT RAISES.
>> Reporter: OVER THE PAST SEVEN
YEARS, ACROSS INDIA, ALMOST
EVERY CITIZEN HAS STOOD IN LINE
TO GET A NEW NATIONAL I.D.
>> NEXT, NEXT.
>> Reporter: IT IS A 12-DIGIT
NUMBER BACKED BY BIOMETRIC
SECURITY.
A HEAD SHOT, PLUS FINGERPRINTS,
PLUS AN IRIS SCAN.
IT IS THE MOST EXHAUSTIVE
HEADCOUNT BY A COUNTRY IN
HISTORY.
AJAY BUSHAN PANDEY HEADS
AADHAAR, THE AGENCY RUNNING THE
IDENTIFICATION PROGRAM.
>> WE HAVE NOW REACHED THE
FIGURE OF 1.15 BILLION PEOPLE.
AMONG THE ADULTS, MORE THAN 99%
OF THE ADULTS HAVE AADHAAR NOW.
>> Reporter: PANDEY SAYS THE
AADHAAR PROJECT, WHICH HAS SO
FAR COST 90 BILLION RUPEES--
ABOUT A BILLION-AND-A-HALF
DOLLARS-- IMPROVES NATIONAL
SECURITY BY MAKING IT EASIER TO
MONITOR BORDER CROSSINGS WITH
INDIA'S NEIGHBORS, LIKE PAKISTAN
AND BANGLADESH.
HE SAYS THE BIOMETRIC I.D.s
VERIFY IDENTITY, AND WEED OUT
CORRUPTION BY REPLACING PAPER
RECORDS-- IF THEY EVEN EXIST--
WITH ELECTRONIC ONES.
AADHAAR IS BRINGING VAST
SECTIONS OF THE COUNTRY THAT
BARELY ENTERED THE INDUSTRIAL
AGE, INTO THE DIGITAL AGE.
MANY PEOPLE IN INDIA DON'T HAVE
BIRTH CERTIFICATES OR FORMAL
I.D.s, AND THE GOVERNMENT SAYS
THAT THE AADHAAR PROGRAM WILL
CORRECT THIS PROBLEM BY ISSUING
EVERYONE A UNIQUE BIOMETRIC
IDENTIFICATION.
"A TOOL OF INCLUSION" IS WHAT
THE GOVERNMENT CALLS IT.
A THIRD OF INDIA'S POPULATION
SURVIVES ON LESS THAN $2 A DAY.
THEY AND MANY LOW-TO-MIDDLE
INCOME PEOPLE RECEIVE GOVERNMENT
BENEFITS, INCLUDING TEMPORARY
EMPLOYMENT IN PUBLIC WORKS, FARM
SUBSIDIES, AND FOOD COMMODITIES
DISTRIBUTED THROUGH RATION
SHOPS.
THE SYSTEM IS RIFE WITH FRAUD:
FAKE PAPER I.D.s, FAKE
BENEFICIARIES, AND THEFT BY
MIDDLEMEN PREYING ON VULNERABLE,
OFTEN ILLITERATE PEOPLE.
THE NEW, HARDER TO FAKE I.D.s
ARE DESIGNED TO ALLEVIATE THESE
PROBLEMS, SAYS A SPOKESMAN FOR
INDIA'S RULING PARTY, THE
B.J.P., IN THE CAPITAL OF DELHI.
>> 30 YEARS BACK, WHEN LATE
MR. RAJIV GANDHI WAS PRIME
MINISTER OF INDIA, HE HAS USED A
PHRASE: "WHEN 100 RUPEES GOES
FROM DELHI, ONLY 15 OR 16 RUPEES
REACHES TO THE TARGETED POOR."
NOW, WE HAVE ENSURED THAT IF
100 RUPEES GOES FROM HERE, THE
ENTIRE 100 RUPEES DIRECTLY
REACHES TO THE PERSON CONCERNED.
>> Reporter: GIVEN ITS PROMISE
OF SECURITY AND EFFICIENCY, THE
GOVERNMENT RECENTLY DECIDED TO
MAKE AADHAAR MANDATORY FOR A
GROWING NUMBER OF FINANCIAL
TRANSACTIONS.
EVERY BANK ACCOUNT AND TAX
RETURN MUST NOW BE LINKED TO
ONE'S BIOMETRIC I.D., AND AN
AADHAAR NUMBER IS NOW REQUIRED
TO RECEIVE ANY WELFARE BENEFITS.
>> THE WORLD BANK HAS ESTIMATED
THAT IF GOVERNMENT OF INDIA USES
AADHAAR IN ALL ITS PUBLIC
WELFARE SCHEMES, THE ANNUAL
SAVINGS WOULD BE TO THE TUNE OF
ALMOST $11 BILLION EVERY YEAR.
>> I THINK THAT THE SAVINGS THAT
THE GOVERNMENT CLAIMS WHICH
SPRING FROM AADHAAR ARE VASTLY
EXAGGERATED.
>> Reporter: OPPONENTS OF
AADHAAR, LIKE COLUMNIST AND
EDITOR SIDDHARTH VARADARAJAN,
WERE SKEPTICAL WHEN IT BEGAN AS
A VOLUNTARY PROGRAM TO IMPROVE
TRANSPARENCY IN THE WELFARE
SYSTEM.
NOW, THEY ARE ALARMED.
VARADARAJAN SAYS A COUNTRY WHERE
300 MILLION PEOPLE-- A QUARTER
OF THE POPULATION-- DO NOT HAVE
RELIABLE ELECTRICITY, IS
UNPREPARED TO TAKE SUCH A HUGE
DIGITAL LEAP.
>> YOU NEED ELECTRICITY 24/7,
YOU NEED THE INTERNET UP AND
RUNNING 24/7, YOU NEED PROPER
DATA SPEEDS.
SO, GIVEN THE LIMITATIONS OF
TECHNOLOGY, GIVEN THE ABSENCE OF
A PRIVACY LAW, FOR THE
GOVERNMENT TO STEAMROLLER THIS
KIND OF SCHEME, TO MY MIND,
SEEMS TO BE RATHER ILL-ADVISED.
>> Reporter: INTERNET SERVICE IS
AT BEST SPORADIC IN MANY PARTS
OF INDIA, AND IN REGIONS WHERE
AADHAAR I.D.s ARE NOW REQUIRED,
ONE RECENT REPORT BY A WORKERS'
RIGHTS GROUP FOUND THE SYSTEM
HAS DONE LITTLE TO REDUCE
CORRUPTION.
ATTORNEY GAUTAM BHATIA
REPRESENTS SOME AADHAAR
OPPONENTS AND CITIZEN ACTIVISTS
WHO'VE TAKEN THE GOVERNMENT TO
COURT.
>> FOR EXAMPLE, IF YOU ARE, SAY,
A FARMER IN THE RURAL AREAS,
THEN YOU ARE, SAY, ENTITLED TO
RATIONS OR TO KEROSENE, FOR
EXAMPLE, OIL.
AND WHEN THAT IS BASED UPON YOUR
BIOMETRIC AUTHENTICATION, YOU
HAVE TO GO TO THE PERSON WHO IS
AUTHORIZED TO AUTHENTICATE YOU.
AND THAT PERSON MAY SIMPLY SAY
YOUR AUTHENTICATION FAILED AND
NOT GIVE YOU YOUR ENTITLEMENT,
AND THEN YOU ARE BASICALLY LEFT
WITHOUT THAT FOR THAT ONE MONTH,
AND IN FACT THE REPORT SHOWS
THAT MANY FAMILIES HAVE GONE
MANY MONTHS WITHOUT ACCESS TO
VERY IMPORTANT, IMPORTANT,
ENTITLEMENTS.
>> Reporter: BHATIA SAYS THE NEW
TECHNOLOGY WILL NOT WIPE OUT
CORRUPTION, BUT IT HAS VIOLATED
A BASIC TENET OF DEMOCRACY:
PRIVACY.
>> YOU'RE GIVING THE STATE
CENTRALIZED ACCESS TO A VERY
VAST CITIZENRY'S DATA, PERSONAL
DATA.
THAT IS WHERE THE PROBLEM LIES.
YOU ARE FUNDAMENTALLY ALTERING
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE
STATE AND THE INDIVIDUAL.
YOU ARE PUTTING THE INDIVIDUAL
IN A POSITION WHERE HER ACTIONS
ARE VISIBLE IN A CERTAIN WAY TO
THE STATE, WHEREAS WE THINK THAT
THE RELATIONSHIP SHOULD BE THE
OTHER WAY AROUND.
>> Reporter: ALREADY, THERE HAVE
BEEN SEVERAL LEAKS OF PERSONAL
DATA.
AADHAAR OPPONENTS WORRY ROGUE
OPERATORS OR HACKERS COULD
STEAL BIOMETRIC DATA LIKE
FINGERPRINTS, ALLOWING INDIANS
TO BE PROFILED FOR COMMERCIAL OR
POLITICAL PURPOSES.
BUT AADHAAR'S DIRECTOR SAYS HIS
AGENCY'S SYSTEMS ARE STATE OF
THE ART, AND PRIVACY CONCERNS
ARE OVERBLOWN.
HE ADDS, WHEN THE SYSTEM
AUTHENTICATES A PERSON, IT DOES
NOT KEEP ANY RECORDS OF
TRANSACTIONS.
>> AADHAAR ALSO PLACES
RESTRICTION ON MERGING OF
VARIOUS DATA BASES.
RIGHT.
SO YOU CANNOT LINK THE VARIOUS
DATABASES AND CREATE A
SURVEILLANCE TOOL.
AADHAAR ACT PROVIDES A VERY
STRONG PROTECTION AGAINST ANY
SUCH MOVE, SO ANY VIOLATION OF
THE LAW WILL BE TAKEN VERY
SERIOUSLY.
>> Reporter: EDITOR VARADARAJAN
IS NOT REASSURED, BECAUSE, HE
SAYS, THE RULE OF LAW IS
FREQUENTLY FLOUTED BY CORRUPT OR
INCOMPETENT OFFICIALS.
>> IF INDIA WAS A BETTER
GOVERNED STATE, IF THE RULE OF
LAW OPERATED IN A MORE
TRANSPARENT MANNER, HALF OF
THESE OBJECTIONS WOULD VANISH.
>> Reporter: WHEN HE WAS IN THE
OPPOSITION, INDIAN PRIME
MINISTER NARENDRA MODI CALLED
AADHAAR A GIMMICK.
BUT IN POWER, HE'S EMBRACED IT,
INSISTING HIS GOVERNMENT HAS
BUILT-IN PRIVACY SAFEGUARDS.
AND MODI WANTS TO VASTLY EXPAND
ITS SCOPE.
>> THE WHOLE ACT WAS ENACTED FOR
THE PURPOSE OF PASSING ON THE
SUBSIDIES MORE EFFICIENTLY, NOT
TO CONVERT A DEMOCRATIC COUNTRY
INTO A POLICE STATE.
>> Reporter: AADHAAR HAS SPARKED
ROBUST DEBATE ON INDIAN NEWS
OUTLETS LIKE "MIRROR NOW," BUT
NOT SO MUCH IN THE STREETS.
>> (translated): IT WORKS.
TO OPEN A BANK ACCOUNT, IT
WORKS.
>> Reporter: IN THIS POOR
SECTION OF DELHI WHERE ALMOST
EVERYONE HAS AN AADHAAR NUMBER,
THERE'S BEEN NO CONTROVERSY,
BECAUSE, PEOPLE TOLD US, THEY
HAVE FAR MORE BASIC WORRIES.
"NOTHING LOST, NOTHING GAINED,"
WITH THE NEW I.D., THIS WOMAN
SAYS, AS SHE WASHED CANS SHE'D
FILL WITH WATER AS SOON AS THE
MUNICIPAL TANKER ARRIVED.
THERE'S NO RUNNING WATER HERE.
AND, THIS MAN COMPLAINED, RATION
SHOPS OFTEN CLAIM THEY ARE OUT
OF THE SUBSIDIZED RICE AND OTHER
ESSENTIALS.
INDIA'S SUPREME COURT HAS
AFFIRMED THE GOVERNMENT'S RIGHT
TO LINK AADHAAR TO WELFARE
BENEFITS AND TAX RETURNS.
BUT IT HAS YET TO RULE ON
WHETHER BEING FORCED TO PROVIDE
BIOMETRIC INFORMATION VIOLATES
AN INDIVIDUAL'S RIGHT TO
PRIVACY.
WHEN THE COURT ANSWERS THAT
QUESTION, THE FATE OF THE
WORLD'S LARGEST SINGLE DATABASE
OF BIOMETRIC INFORMATION WILL BE
AT STAKE.
>> Sreenivasan: TOMORROW,
VENEZUELA HOLDS AN ELECTION FOR
A NEW NATIONAL ASSEMBLY THAT
COULD REWRITE ITS CONSTITUTION.
PARTIES THAT OPPOSE BELEAGUERED
PRESIDENT NICOLAS MADURO ARE
BOYCOTTING THE VOTE, BECAUSE
THEY SAY IT'S A SCHEME BY MADURO
TO EXPAND HIS EXECUTIVE POWERS.
MADURO'S SOCIALIST PARTY HAS
PRESIDED OVER A SEVERE ECONOMIC
DOWNTURN MARKED BY TRIPLE-DIGIT
INFLATION AND SCARCE SUPPLIES OF
FOOD AND MEDICINE.
THIS, AS VENEZUELA'S MOST
IMPORTANT EXPORT, OIL
PRODUCTION, CONTINUES TO
DECLINE.
FOR MORE ON THE CONTROVERSIAL
VOTE, I AM JOINED VIA SKYPE BY
REUTERS REPORTER BRIAN ELLSWORTH
FROM THE VENEZUELAN CAPITAL OF
CARACAS.
BRIAN, WE ARE ALMOST TALKING
ABOUT THE VOTE AS A MATTER OF
COURSE, HERE, TOMORROW.
WE KNOW THE OUTCOME, BECAUSE THE
OPPOSITION'S NOT PUTTING UP ANY
CANDIDATES.
>> YES, THAT'S RIGHT.
IN EFFECT, THE VOTE WILL TAKE
PLACE TOMORROW, AND THE
OPPOSITION PARTIES ARE NOT
PARTICIPATING, WHICH MEANS THAT
THIS 545-SEAT ASSEMBLY WILL GO
ENTIRELY TO ALLIES OF THE
SOCIALIST PARTY.
WE'RE LIKELY TO SEE NEXT WEEK AT
SOME POINT, THERE WILL LIKELY BE
SOME DIVISIONS THAT WILL EMERGE,
DIFFERENT GROUPS SORT OF SEEKING
TO CONTROL LEADERSHIP OF THE
INSTITUTION.
BUT AS YOU SAY, YES, THERE IS NO
OPPOSITION PARTICIPATION, SO
THERE ISN'T A LOT OF SUSPENSE AS
TO WHO WILL WIN.
>> Sreenivasan: WELL, FOR PEOPLE
WHO DON'T FOLLOW THE INTERNAL
POLITICS OF VENEZUELA, WHAT DOES
THIS-- WHAT'S THE POWER THAT
THIS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY WILL
ACTUALLY HAVE?
>> WELL, THE CONSTITUTION HAS
ONE ARTICLE THAT GIVES VERY
VAGUE DESCRIPTION OF WHAT THIS
BODY DOES.
AND IT SAYS ALMOST NOTHING,
OTHER THAN THE FACT THAT IT CAN
REWRITE THE CONSTITUTION, AND IT
CANNOT BE CHALLENGED OR
OVERRULED BY ANY OTHER
GOVERNMENT AGENCY.
WHICH MEANS THAT NEITHER THE
COURTS, NOR ANY EXECUTIVE BRANCH
POWERS, OR ANYONE ELSE, CAN TELL
THIS ASSEMBLY NOT TO DO
SOMETHING.
LAST TIME THIS WAS DONE IN
1999, THERE WAS A VERY CLEAR
MANDATE TO REWRITE THE
CONSTITUTION.
NOW, THE CONSTITUTION ALREADY
GIVES QUITE A BIT OF GENEROUS
EXECUTIVE POWER TO THE
PRESIDENT, BUT THEY COULD, FOR
EXAMPLE, DISSOLVE THE
OPPOSITION-RUN CONGRESS.
THEY COULD FIRE THE PROSECUTOR,
THE CHIEF PROSECUTOR, WHO HAS
BEEN INCREASINGLY CRITICAL OF
THE MADURO GOVERNMENT.
SO, IT EFFECTIVELY CREATES A
SUPERBODY, THAT WILL HAVE
UNLIMITED POWERS, WITH VERY
UNCLEAR CONSEQUENCES AS TO WHAT
THAT WOULD MEAN.
>> Sreenivasan: SO THIS COULD
ACTUALLY KEEP MADURO IN POWER
INDEFINITELY, KIND OF SLIDING
AWAY FROM DEMOCRACY INTO A
DICTATORSHIP.
>> WE DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY WOULD
ACTUALLY DO.
BUT THE CURRENT ELECTORAL
SCHEDULE HAS MADURO'S TERM
ENDING IN EARLY 2019, AND THE
NEXT ELECTIONS TAKING PLACE IN
LATE 2018.
SO ONE OF THE THINGS THAT THEY
COULD DO IS, NOT ONLY ALTER THE
TIME FRAME FOR WHEN THE
ELECTIONS WOULD HAPPEN, BUT THEY
COULD ALSO ALTER THE WAY THE
ACTUAL VOTES ARE TAKING PLACE.
WHICH, IF YOU NOTE, IN THIS
ELECTION, THIS IS BEING--
THESE SEATS ARE BEING
DISTRIBUTED BY MUNICIPALITY,
WHICH BASICALLY OVER-REPRESENTS
THE RURAL AREAS, AND IN EFFECT,
OVER-REPRESENTS THE GOVERNMENT.
WHICH WAS THE MAIN OPPOSITION
ARGUMENT FOR SAYING, "WE'RE NOT
GOING TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS."
SO THEY COULD DO SIMILAR THINGS,
IN ORDER TO JUGGLE THE BASIC
ELECTORAL FUNCTIONING, IN AN
ENVIRONMENT IN WHICH THE
SOCIALIST PARTY BASICALLY CANNOT
WIN AN ELECTION, DUE TO THE
EXTREME ECONOMIC CRISIS.
>> Sreenivasan: WELL, HOW DO THE
COUNTRIES IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD--
HOW DOES THE UNITED STATES WEIGH
IN ON THIS?
>> THE UNITED STATES HAS ALREADY
SANCTIONED-- LAST WEEK ANNOUNCED
SANCTIONS AGAINST 13 HIGH-
RANKING SOCIALIST PARTY
OFFICIALS.
AND THEY HAVE SAID MORE SWIFT
SANCTIONS ARE ON THE WAY, IF
THIS VOTE GOES THROUGH.
IT'S NOT IMMEDIATELY EVIDENT
WHAT THOSE SANCTIONS WOULD BE,
BUT IT COULD INVOLVE BLOCKING
THE SALE OF VENEZUELAN OIL TO
THE UNITED STATES, OR FINANCIAL
SANCTIONS THAT WOULD PREVENT
VENEZUELA FROM COLLECTING ON THE
OIL THAT IT SELLS.
>> Sreenivasan: EVEN AFTER THIS
VOTE TOMORROW, IS THE CONDITION
OF LIFE LIKELY TO GET ANY BETTER
FOR THE PEOPLE OF VENEZUELA THAT
HAVE BEEN SUFFERING OVER THE
PAST TWO MONTHS, THAT WE'VE BEEN
CHRONICLING?
>> THIS IS ANOTHER OF THE
OPPOSITION'S ARGUMENTS AGAINST
THE ASSEMBLY, IS THAT THE
PRIMARY CONCERN OF ANY
VENEZUELAN THAT YOU SPEAK TO ON
THE STREET TODAY IS THAT THERE
ISN'T FOOD, THERE ISN'T
MEDICINE, AND PRICES ARE
SKYROCKETING.
THE ASSEMBLY, AS PROPOSED, MAKES
NO EVIDENT-- DOES NOTHING, IN
EFFECT, TO CHANGE ANY OF THAT.
THE REFORMS THAT THEY NEED TO
DO, WHICH WILL BE PAINFUL TO
CHANGE THIS, FROM A SORT OF
SOCIALIST, STATE-CONTROLLED
ECONOMY INTO A MARKET ECONOMY,
THEY HAVE REPEATEDLY AVOIDED
DOING.
AND THERE IS NO SUGGESTION THAT
THE ASSEMBLY IS READY TO DO
THIS, AND THERE IS NOTHING,
PER SE, ABOUT THE ASSEMBLY THAT
WOULD CHANGE THIS SITUATION.
IT'S NOT LIKE MONDAY, OR
WEDNESDAY, WE'RE SUDDENLY GOING
TO SEE FOOD ON THE SHELVES.
SO, THIS HAS BEEN ONE OF THE
PRIMARY ARGUMENTS AGAINST IT,
AND AS THINGS STAND, IT'S NOT
CLEAR THAT IT IS GOING TO CHANGE
ANY OF THOSE THINGS.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
REUTERS REPORTER BRIAN ELLSWORTH
JOINING US VIA SKYPE FROM
CARACAS TODAY.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SATURDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE IS A
MASSIVE RELOCATION EFFORT
UNDERWAY IN THE AFRICAN NATION
OF MALAWI.
CONSERVATIONISTS THERE ARE
MOVING ELEPHANTS FROM AN
OVERPOPULATED AREA TO ONE THAT
IS LESS CROWDED, AND SAFER FROM
THE REACH OF POACHERS.
THE MOVE COVERS MORE THAN
200 MILES AND INVOLVES
500 ELEPHANTS.
ITN'S JOHN RAY REPORTS.
>> Reporter: FROM HIGH IN THE
AFRICAN SKY, THE MARKSMEN WITH
THE DART GUN MAKES IT LOOK
SIMPLE.
IT IS ANYTHING BUT.
EVERY SECOND COUNTS NOW.
AN ENTIRE FAMILY GROUP KNOCKED
OUT.
>> THEY'RE UP THIS WAY!
>> Reporter: AND THERE'S A
PANIC.
A BIG FEMALE, THE MATRIARCH, IS
STUCK IN A DITCH, FACE-DOWN.
WORSE, HER CALF IS LYING ACROSS
HER TRUNK, A SUFFOCATING WEIGHT
THAT TAKES GREAT SWEAT TO SHIFT.
>> QUICKLY!
>> Reporter: MORE ROPES ARE
ATTACHED, AND SLOWLY, THREE TONS
OF SLUMBERING ELEPHANT IS HAULED
TO SAFETY.
>> CHECK HER BREATHING.
>> Reporter: AND SOON, EVERY
BODY IS WENCHED FROM THE GROUND
AND PLACED INSIDE STEEL CRATES.
IT'S AFRICA'S MOST AMBITIOUS
ELEPHANT RELOCATION, FROM A
RESERVE WHERE CONSERVATION MEANS
THERE ARE NOW TOO MANY
ELEPHANTS, TO A NEW HOME 200
MILES TO THE NORTH, WHERE
POACHERS ALMOST WIPED THEM OUT,
BUT IS NOW A SAFE HAVEN AGAIN.
AT THE END OF THE DAY, NO
ELEPHANT COULD EVER FORGET THE
MOMENT OF WELCOME RELEASE.
THE MATRIARCH WHO MIGHT HAVE
DIED IN THAT DITCH SHOWS THAT
SHE'S BACK IN CHARGE; A NEW LIFE
BECKONS, A NEW HOPE FOR THE
GREATEST OF AFRICAN ICONS.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, COULD
HE BE THE NEXT MICHAEL PHELPS?
AT THE WORLD SWIMMING
CHAMPIONSHIPS IN BUDAPEST,
AMERICAN CALEB DRESSEL WON THE
50-METER FREESTYLE, THE
100-METER BUTTERFLY, AND THE
4X100 FREESTYLE RELAY TODAY.
DRESSEL IS THE FIRST SWIMMER IN
HISTORY TO CAPTURE THREE GOLDS
IN A SINGLE DAY AT THE WORLD
CHAMPIONSHIPS.
TOMORROW ON PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND, BCORPS.
BUSINESSES COMMITTED TO
BENEFITING SHAREHOLDERS AND
SOCIETY.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.